Now, my discussion is about the miracle of prayer.
What is one of the four most ways we draw close to?
We stay close to Jehovah by means of prayer.
In prayer, we experience Jehovah's love in a truly intimate way.
The watchtower some years ago made this comment, be assured that through the miracle of prayer,
Jehovah is able to listen to you.
And that's very appropriate to describe prayer as a miracle.
Let's think about it.
You can pray in any language, even though, according to some linguists, there are more
than 6,800 languages spoken on the earth today.
Jehovah knows all those languages.
Now, we're impressed if a person knows two or three languages.
Jehovah knows every language.
And that includes the perhaps 300 sign languages being used on earth today, according to one
encyclopedia.
Jehovah knows every sign language.
In fact, our prayer can be a silent prayer uttered only in the privacy of our heart.
Amazingly, if a faithful servant of Jehovah does not even know what to pray for because
of the perplexity of the situation or his mental anguish, according to Romans 8.26,
the Holy Spirit can, in effect, formulate a prayer in his behalf.
Now, that is truly miraculous.
And as we know, Jehovah has not delegated the hearing of prayer to anyone, not even his
son.
From 65 to caused Jehovah the hearer of prayer, and hearer is singular.
But here's a question, what is prayer?
Well, some have defined it as talking to Jehovah.
But is that really accurate?
A go to Genesis chapter 3, please.
Let's use this scripture to answer that if it's just talking to Jehovah.
Genesis chapter 3, verse 9, and Jehovah God kept calling to the man and saying to him,
where are you?
Finally he, Adam, said, I heard your voice in the garden, but I was afraid because I
was naked, so I hid myself.
Well, clearly, Adam was talking to Jehovah, but it was not prayer.
We have numerous other examples in the Bible.
So appropriately, the insight book defines prayer as worshipful address to the true God.
And then it adds, it involves devotion, trust, respect, and a sense of dependence on the
one to whom the prayer is offered.
So that's a very good point.
If we want Jehovah to view, our prayer is not just talking to him, but truly prayer
we've got to make sure it is worshipful address and that we attach devotion, trust, respect,
a deep sense of dependence on Jehovah.
And obviously, that would require that we prepare our hearts before we pray to Jehovah.
Ezra 7, 10, Ezra prepared his heart.
Well, we would do well to do the same.
But now here's another question.
What are the different types of prayer?
Well, our publications have explained there are basically four types of prayer.
We have petition, supplication, thanksgiving, and praise.
And if you boil it down even further, you can say there's two types of prayer.
Petition and thanksgiving because supplication is really a form of petition, just very deep
petition, but petition.
And praise is a form of thanksgiving.
Making Jehovah for being the God that he is.
But let's briefly talk about these four categories of prayer we can divide it into.
Take first petition.
Just like it sounds, we're asking, we're requesting of Jehovah and Jehovah encourages
us to ask him for our needs.
At Matthew 7, 7, Jesus said, keep on asking and it will be given you.
Keep on seeking and you will find, keep on knocking and it will be open to you.
And of course, Jesus gives us things we can pray for, our daily bread, forgiveness of
our sins, deliverance from the evil one as a few examples.
But now let's take supplication.
The watchtower explains, the word means earnest and treaty, besieging prayer.
It involves imploring God very earnestly as in time of great stress or peril.
If you want to think of a modern example of supplication, think of a wife's prayer the
night before her husband is executed for keeping his integrity.
That would truly be supplication.
Now, let's go to thanksgiving as it sounds, it's the rendering of thanks to Jehovah.
And how voluminous are the things for which we should express gratitude to Jehovah?
Let me think about all the material physical gifts that not only make life possible, but
make it enjoyable.
Every good gift, every perfect present comes from Jehovah, James 117.
And then what about the spiritual gifts, Jehovah showers upon us, the benefits of the
ransom sacrifice, the Holy Spirit, God's Word, the Christian congregation, our marvelous
kingdom hope, just to mention a few things.
It is only right that we thank Jehovah for the things he has done is doing and will yet
do in the future.
As Paul said at Ephesians 520, we should be always giving thanks to our God and Father
for everything.
But now let's move to praise.
Praise is a noble, exalted form of prayer, as we said before, closely related to thanksgiving.
We could look at it this way, thanksgiving, we thank Jehovah for the gifts he gives us.
Praise we thank Jehovah for being the God he is and the qualities he has that we appreciate
so much see.
One brother said that praise is bragging on Jehovah.
And that really harmonizes with what Paul said at 1 Corinthians 131, the one who boasts,
let him boast in Jehovah.
Jehovah is above all others.
He is certainly deserving of praise.
Exodus 15 and verse 11 tells us this.
It says, Who among the gods is like you, O Jehovah?
Who is like you, showing yourself mighty in holiness?
The one to be feared with songs of praise, the one doing wonders.
Yes, Jehovah is worthy of our words and our songs of praise.
Well, there we have four types of prayer.
We mention petition, supplication, thanksgiving, and praise.
And obviously, we should endeavor to try to balance our prayers using a combination of
these different aspects of prayer.
Now, if we're not careful, especially there's a danger that our prayers could become
lopsided with petition.
Now that would be not good, would it?
In fact, I think of a survey that the awake commented on in watching the world, a survey
among people who prayed, and among those who still pray, that survey showed that most
of them, their prayers are only petition.
And then it said, they view God as like a divine Santa Claus.
Give me this, give me that, help me with this, do this for me.
We wouldn't want our prayers to even slightly take on a selfish tenor like that.
And what probably is the weakest aspect of most prayers?
Probably praise.
If we're not careful, our prayers could lack sufficient praise for Jehovah, and that would
be sad because he is so deserving of praise.
Well, may we persevere in prayer, Romans 12-12.
May we pray constantly, 1 Thessalonians 5-17, and may we strive to keep our prayers balanced
and heartfelt, truly worshipful address to our Heavenly Father, and this will help us
to draw close and stay close to our wonderful Heavenly Father.